Update dashboarding section for new features (#127)
infrawatch/documentation: doc-Service-Telemetry-Framework/modules/proc_setting-up-grafana-to-host-the-dashboard.adoc

[id="setting-up-grafana-to-host-the-dashboard_{context}"]
= Setting up Grafana to host the dashboard

> Grafana is not included in the default {Project} ({ProjectShort}) deployment so you must deploy the Grafana Operator from OperatorHub.io. Using the Service Telemetry Operator to deploy Grafana will result in a Grafana instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana is not included in the default {Project} ({ProjectShort}) deployment so you must deploy the Grafana Operator from OperatorHub.io. Using the Service Telemetry Operator to deploy Grafana results in a Grafana instance and the  configuration of the default data sources for the local {ProjectShort} deployment.
```

> and the default datasources configured for the local {ProjectShort} deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[discrete]
.Prerequisites

> Enable OperatorHub.io catalog source for the Grafana Operator. See xref:enabling-the-operatorhubio-community-catalog-source[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable OperatorHub.io catalog source for the Grafana Operator. For more information, see xref:enabling-the-operatorhubio-community-catalog-source[].
```

> [discrete]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

----
+
----
grafanadashboard.integreatly.org/rhos-dashboard created
----

. Verify that the resources installed correctly:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc get grafanadashboards
----
+
----
NAME             AGE
rhos-dashboard   7d21h
----
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc get grafanadatasources
----
+
----
NAME                        AGE
stf-default-ds-prometheus   20h
----

. Expose the grafana service as a route
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap"]
----
oc create route edge dashboards --service=grafana-service --insecure-policy="Redirect" --port=3000
----

. Navigate to https://<grafana-route-address> in a web browser. Use the `oc get routes` command to retrieve the Grafana route address:
+
[source,bash]
----
oc get route dashboards
----
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap"]
----
NAME         HOST/PORT                                                                    PATH   SERVICES          PORT   TERMINATION     WILDCARD
dashboards   dashboards-service-telemetry.apps.stfcloudops1.lab.upshift.rdu2.redhat.com          grafana-service   3000   edge/Redirect   None
----

. To view the dashboard, click *Dashboards* and *Manage*.

[id="viewing-and-editing-queries"]
= Viewing and editing queries

> [discrete]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

grafana-operator.v3.2.0             Grafana Operator                                3.2.0                                         Succeeded
...
----

. Launch a Grafana instance by creating or modifying the `ServiceTelemetry` object. Set `graphingEnabled` to `true`.
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc edit ServiceTelemetry stf-default
----
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: infra.watch/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceTelemetry
...
spec:
  graphingEnabled: true
  ...
----

. Verify that the Grafana instance deployed:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc get pod -l app=grafana
----
+
----
NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
grafana-deployment-7fc7848b56-sbkhv   1/1     Running   0          1m
----

.Additional resources

* For more information about enabling the OperatorHub.io catalog source, see xref:enabling-the-operatorhubio-community-catalog-source[].

[id="importing-dashboards_{context}"]
= Importing dashboards

Dashboards can be imported and managed by the Grafana Operator by creating `GrafanaDashboard` objects. Example dashboards are provided at https://github.com/infrawatch/dashboards.

> [discrete]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

oc project service-telemetry
----

. Deploy the Grafana operator:
+
[source,bash]
----
oc apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: grafana-operator
  namespace: service-telemetry
spec:
  channel: alpha
  installPlanApproval: Automatic
  name: grafana-operator
  source: operatorhubio-operators
  sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
EOF
----

. To verify that the operator launched successfully, run the `oc get csv` command. If the value of the PHASE column is Succeeded, the operator launched successfully:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc get csv
----
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap"]
----
NAME                                DISPLAY                                         VERSION   REPLACES                            PHASE
grafana-operator.v3.2.0             Grafana Operator                                3.2.0                                         Succeeded
...
----

> . Launch a Grafana instance by creating or modifying the `ServiceTelemetry` object. Set `graphingEnabled` to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To launch a Grafana instance, create or modify the `ServiceTelemetry` object. Set `graphingEnabled` to `true`.
```

+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc edit ServiceTelemetry stf-default
----
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: infra.watch/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceTelemetry
...
spec:
  graphingEnabled: true
  ...
----

. Verify that the Grafana instance deployed:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc get pod -l app=grafana
----
+
----
NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
grafana-deployment-7fc7848b56-sbkhv   1/1     Running   0          1m
----

> [discrete]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
EOF
----

. To verify that the operator launched successfully, run the `oc get csv` command. If the value of the PHASE column is Succeeded, the operator launched successfully:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc get csv
----
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap"]
----
NAME                                DISPLAY                                         VERSION   REPLACES                            PHASE
grafana-operator.v3.2.0             Grafana Operator                                3.2.0                                         Succeeded
...
----

. Launch a Grafana instance by creating or modifying the `ServiceTelemetry` object. Set `graphingEnabled` to `true`.
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc edit ServiceTelemetry stf-default
----
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: infra.watch/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceTelemetry
...
spec:
  graphingEnabled: true
  ...
----

. Verify that the Grafana instance deployed:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc get pod -l app=grafana
----
+
----
NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
grafana-deployment-7fc7848b56-sbkhv   1/1     Running   0          1m
----

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: We can remove this section as it's already in the Prereqs above

> * For more information about enabling the OperatorHub.io catalog source, see xref:enabling-the-operatorhubio-community-catalog-source[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

[id="importing-dashboards_{context}"]
= Importing dashboards

> Dashboards can be imported and managed by the Grafana Operator by creating `GrafanaDashboard` objects. Example dashboards are provided at https://github.com/infrawatch/dashboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Grafana Operator can import and manage dashboards by creating `GrafanaDashboard` objects. You can view example dashboards at https://github.com/infrawatch/dashboards.
```

.Procedure

> . Import a dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Import a dashboard:
```

+
[source,bash,options="nowrap"]
----
$ oc apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/infrawatch/dashboards/master/deploy/rhos-dashboard.yaml
----
+
----
grafanadashboard.integreatly.org/rhos-dashboard created
----

. Verify that the resources installed correctly:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc get grafanadashboards
----
+
----
NAME             AGE
rhos-dashboard   7d21h
----
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc get grafanadatasources
----
+
----
NAME                        AGE
stf-default-ds-prometheus   20h
----

> . Expose the grafana service as a route

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Expose the grafana service as a route:
```

+
[source,bash,options="nowrap"]
----
oc create route edge dashboards --service=grafana-service --insecure-policy="Redirect" --port=3000
----

> . Navigate to https://<grafana-route-address> in a web browser. Use the `oc get routes` command to retrieve the Grafana route address:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Navigate to https://<grafana-route-address> in a web browser. 

. Use the `oc get routes` command to retrieve the Grafana route address:
```

> . Navigate to https://<grafana-route-address> in a web browser. Use the `oc get routes` command to retrieve the Grafana route address:

Reviewer: @leifmadsen Apologies if this came up previously. How can one navigate to an address that they do not have yet? 
Should this be separated out, something like: 

. Use the `oc get routes` command to retrieve the Grafana route address:
**comand and output blah**
The HOST/PORT value is the Grafana route address. 
. Navigate to https://<grafana-route-address> in a web browser. Replace <grafana-route-address> with the HOST/PORT value you retrieved in the previous step.

Author: Ah ha, yes, that sounds right. Use `oc get routes` to obtain the address first, then navigate to https://<value from HOST/PORT>.
